“@所有人 本周作业批判写作的内容要求对课本文章“Why Chinese Mothers Are Superior”进行分析评价，尤其要注意形成个人观点，并对其进行充分论述。你可以赞成或反对Amy Chua的观点，实事求是就好。形式可参考86页例文，但是不必照抄，也不必教条。”

“@所有人 提醒：五百字作文用英语写。”

“@所有人 曾经有过完全跑题的同学，例如写“我对乔布斯传记的读后感”…跑题者成绩只能为零。”



**A Critical Essay on Why Chinese Mothers Are Superior**

I don't agree with the article "Why Chinese Mothers Are Superior", which argues that Chinese parents are often able to raise successful children because of their special education. I think the author's view is one-sided and narrow-minded.

First of all, she thinks that Chinese children are often successful because of Chinese style upbringing. But what constitutes success varies from person to person. For some people success is finding a well-paying job and becoming a member of the upper class of society. For some people success may be becoming a scientific researcher and contributing to the progress of mankind. Even the success that many aspired is to start a harmonious family and go through life smoothly. Success in the secular sense of the word in this article is not necessarily what everyone wants to achieve, nor is it necessarily accompanied by happiness and fulfillment. I would go so far as to say that it is this kind of vulgar outlook on life that has stifled the creativity of many Chinese children, leading them to stop at being ordinary middle-class people rather than the people they want to be, and that is a great tragedy!

What's more, she makes a hasty sweeping generalization that Chinese parents are comparing fun with competence. This doesn't apply to all Chinese parents but may just be her own approach. Many enlightened Chinese parents support their children in choosing majors that they enjoy rather than what they are good at. For example, one of my high school classmates, who excelled in math and physics but was interested in history, ended up choosing archeology as his college major with the support of his parents. Including my parents, they would consult me repeatedly when choosing what to study, to make sure that I really like it (or at least don't hate it) and then rest assured.

Finally, she thinks that Chinese parents don't care what their children like. It's an irresponsible generalization. Most of the Chinese parents around me agree that "interest is the best teacher", and they choose how to raise their children based on their interests. For example, when I was a child, I disliked sketching and preferred playing chess, so my parents encouraged me to take chess lessons instead of painting, knowing that letting children learn what they want to learn will make them happier and more motivated, even if their child won't be able to use the skill in the future lives.

Anyway, I take exception to the author's point of view. She arrogantly equates success with achieving status and recognition in the secular world and trivializes caring about the spiritual world of her children, which could very well lead to tragedy in many lives. Then she also rashly assumes that all other Chinese parents are like her. Her personal belief that most Chinese parents equate fun with competence and even ignore their children's aspirations only reflects, I think, her wishful thinking and self-righteousness as a middle-class person.